Timeline of the year's personal repo git commits (below image) shows some interesting seasonality, can you spot the holidays and weekends :) ? Using GenAI, RAG, Agents to address business problems has been an amazing journey during 2024 and these commits capture parts of that effort  

The biggest evolution in my own developer experience during 2024 was bringing GenAI directly into the IDE. After extensive experimentations with various LLMs through 2023, this year I purchased personal ChatGPT (CGPT) and GitHub CoPilot (GHCP via VSCode extension) subscriptions and here are some year-end observations on the impact of GenAI on developer productivity based on this stack: 

GHCP proved very useful at the smallest unit of code, Ctrl+I is now my favourite rubber duck for in-lining very specific codebase queries. I also find GHCP useful at project architecture level (@workspace) when scaffolding the project or refactoring existing code.  And I regularly use .gitHub/copilot-instructions.md to provide GHCP with repo and user specific context with fairly satisfactory outcomes

At an intermediate code-unit level however, e.g., class definitions, utility functions, I prefer CGPT canvas over GHCP as its overwrite functionality makes scroll-free code review easier and users have more flexibility to change specific sections in the suggestions instead of GHCP's Accept/Discard.  

Both tools are similarly proficient in meta-tasks like writing tests, documentation and for these I generally tend to go with GHCP simply because there's less context switching

Finally, the big one - will all these GenAI make software developers redundant? I have no doubt the answer is a resounding 'No', not because the AI is poor but simply because human ingenuity is so freaking awesome. These tools will enable us to build apps of a degree of  technical sophistication we are only just beginning to comprehend (looking at you mutli-modal-agent-mesh) and CGPT, GHCP and their like will enable a 10X developer to become a 100X developer and impact, opportunities of such developers will only expand over time. 

So if you are a developer looking for an inspiring New Year resolution consider bringing GenAI right into your IDE and pip install langchain. Promise you 2025 will be a whole lot amazing. Happy New Year and Happy Coding! 

#genai #rag #agent #chat-gpt #github-copilot #devex



